Afternoon
Time:	 Monday, December 30, 2019, 02:00pm
 Title:	 The Nature and Impact of Supernovae Feedback in Galaxy Formation
 Speaker:	 Dr. Miao Li (Flatiron Institute)
 Location:	
蒙民伟科技南楼S727

李邈 Li, Miao
神高驰之邈邈

galaxy formation is not just about gravity
feedback: bottleneck to understand galaxy formation

SNe feedback: why challenging
	Observationally:
		ISM is multiphase, need multi-wavelength obs
	Theoretically:
		
	--- Numerical hydrodynamic simulation is a helpful tool

now: top-down approach
Dr Li: bottom-up approach
Outline:
	1. inside
		small boxes simuation, kpc patch of galaxy disk
		quantify SNe-driven outflows: Mass loading, Energy, metal loading
		Hot outflows carry most energy, much larger specific energy
			Positive correlation: SNe ...
		
		
	2. outside
		

	3. SNe Ia feedback in elliptical galaxies

Future:
1. small scale:
	synthetic observation of ISM/outflows
	role of cosmic rays + magnetic field
2. large scale:
	CGM studies with physical outflow models, for wide range of halo masses over cosmic time

3. Impact of Type Ia SNe in old systems
	Galactic bulges
		Fueling of supermassive black holes

	CGM of early-type galaxies, SDSS, Hubble, HUBS, TMT

ENZO, Athena MHD, Athena, Gadget





ABSTRACT

The missing baryon and the missing metals problems are the two major challenges for galaxy formation. Circumgalactic Medium (CGM), where cosmic inflows interact with galactic outflows, bears critical information for solving these problems. Current cosmological simulations can model cosmic inflows but their galactic outflows usually rely on ad hoc sub-grid models. The path forward requires better understanding the feedback physics and using physically-based models in large-scale simulations. In this talk, I will first summarize the recent progress of small-box hydrodynamical simulations focusing on the nature of supernovae (SNe) feedback; particularly, the hot outflows are much more powerful than cool outflows while also appearing very simple. Then, I will introduce our galactic scale simulations, which adopt the outflow models from the small-box simulations. For a Milky Way-mass galaxy, when the star formation surface density is low, hot outflows form large-scale fountains in the halo. The warm-hot CGM has a universal density profile, which produces the observed column density of O VI, VII, and VIII, and X-ray emission. Cool gas condenses out of the hot CGM and falls toward the galaxy. In contrast, when the star formation surface density is high, the outflows are bipolar in shape and funnel metals into the intergalactic medium; cool phase is formed en route, with a fraction moving outward at several hundred km/s at large radii. I will discuss the implications of our results to the missing baryon and the missing metals problems.

BIO
Miao Li obtained her PhD in 2017 from Columbia University working with Prof. Jeremiah Ostriker and Prof. Greg Bryan. Since then she works as a Flatiron Research Fellow at Center for Computational Astrophysics, Flatiron Institute in New York. Miao Li's research interests are to understand galaxy formation and the distribution of cosmic baryons using high-performance computing. She has been working extensively on supernova feedback, multiphase ISM and circumgalactic medium, cosmic rays, and formation of first supermassive black holes.
 

















Time:	 Monday, December 30, 2019, 10:00am
 Title:	 From One to Many: Exoplanet Science with Precise Radial Velocities

Science: Search for and study the formation and evolution of exoplanets

Expertise: RV: steller jitter, tellurics, data analysis, survey

Projects: PI of RVx, EarthFinder,Magellan Planet Finder Spectrograph PFS, WIYN/NEID, Keck Planet Finder KPF, MINERVA(array of small telescopes)


questions:
	Are we alone
		find earth analogs
	How did we get here
		characterize many exoplanets
RV: mass, periods
Transit: radius, periods

challenges:
	earth 2.0 -- steller jitter, data analysis
	population -- formation

Steller jitter is the bottleneck for detecting Earth analogs
	gravitational redshift
	magnetic cycle/ meridional flow
	flare in active M dwarfs
	oscillations
	granulation
	active regions
Hope:
	stellar jitter is generally chromatic
	usually has other spectral of photometric signatures

Photometric variation, RV variation
	tackle the problem of stellar jitter with simutaneous precise RV and space photometry

steller oscillation: averaging? modeling? --- important for 30 meter telescopes

can we get rid of stellar gitter via modeling using photometry?
	yes, with 2 free parameters
	gaussian process, covariance matrix
		RV amplitude not consistent with theoretical prediction	
		extra noise may be from granulation or instrumental
		wang et al 2020, APJL

Two spectroscopic twins, very different behavious in long-term RVs
	Mount Milson s --- ?
	first evidence of meridional flow in another Sun-like star?
RV archival data

2. Data Analysis
there is more than stellar jitter in the NIR ...
	Earth's atmosphere (Tellurics)
	Best mitigation of tellurics
		Wang, Latouf et alm 2020a, AJ
		Latout, Wang et al, 2020, APJL
	Tensorflow, wobble by Megan Bedell(https://bedell.space/)
Future: advanced computation informed by atmosphere modeling

3. Population
Population study informs planet formation

Magellan TESS Survey (MTS), small planet population

formulated survey strategy to avoid biases
	target selection with TESS simulation
		--- Radius gap in reality
	gaussian process, Gan, Wang, et al, APJL, 2020 |
		 < 100 points, always over fitting, model comparison, right model, gaussian process is an 绷带,



Can we combine the transit and RV signal to extract the signal caused by the planet from the noise
	--- simulation first
is there some simulation/results in the combination of RV and photometry 




Find, confirm and characterize Earth analogs
	Space Missions , Mi-Yin, GTC/HRS, TMT

True RV surveys of a variety of nearby stars
	Maggellan 3: other ground RV instruments

HUBS: X ray characterization of M dawarfs, escaping planet atmosphere
Magellan 3: new instrument for multi-object RV surveys
Other ground and space: CubeSat, small dedicated telescopes


The best type of stars to detect Earth 2.0
K darwfs --- twice aboundance




































 Speaker:	 Dr. Xuesong Wang (Carnegie Observatories)
 Location:	
蒙民伟科技南楼S727

ABSTRACT

More than two decades after the first discovery of exoplanets, the field is moving towards the era of finding Earth analogs as well as building up robust samples of well-characterized exoplanets to study their formation and evolution. Precise radial velocity (RV) is taking the lead in surveying nearby bright stars for Earth analogs, while playing an important role in characterizing populations of exoplanets, such as following up transiting planets discovered by NASA’s Kepler and TESS missions. This talk focuses on the unique opportunities in detecting Earth analogs and surveying exoplanets with RVs. In particular, I will address some of the challenges we are facing, such as with stellar jitter and in data analysis, and introduce the projects I am leading to address these challenges (e.g., RVxTESS.com). I will also introduce my current and future works (e.g., the Magellan TESS Survey) on building statistically robust samples of well-characterized exoplanets to inform theories on planet formation and evolution.

BIO
Dr. Xuesong Wang (Sharon) is a Carnegie Fellow in Astronomy and Planetary Science at Carnegie Observatories. She received her B.S. in Physics at Tsinghua University and her Ph.D. in Astronomy and Astrophysics at Penn State University. Dr. Wang is an expert in detecting and characterizing exoplanets with radial velocities (RVs). In particular, her expertise is in understanding and mitigating stellar jitter, the intrinsic RV signals produced by stars instead of planets, as well as in RV data analysis and hardware diagnosis using data. She is the PI/leader of the RVx collaboration (rvxtess.com), which studies stellar jitter using multiple RV instruments coupled with Kepler and TESS photometry. She is a member of multiple RV science teams, such as the Magellan Planet Finder Spectrograph team and the WIYN-NEID science team. For more information, please see her website at https://bit.ly/sxwang.

Host: Prof. Xuening Bai


