Time:	 Thursday, December 05, 2019, 02:00pm
 Title:	 The Cosmic Ray-Dominated Circumgalactic Medium
 Speaker:	 Dr. Suoqing Ji (Caltech)

季索清


 Location:	
蒙民伟科技南楼S727

ABSTRACT

Recent observations suggest that large quantities of cool gas are found in the circumgalactic medium (CGM) of the galaxy halo, with temperatures of a few 10^4 K. In addition, detections of highly-ionized oxygen (O VI) indicate the existence of warm gas at a few 10^5 K around star-forming galaxies. However, the origin and stability of the combined cool, warm and hot multiphase CGM are not fully understood yet. With the FIRE-2 simulations in which cosmic ray physics is incorporated, we have found that Milky Way-mass galaxy halos at low redshifts could potentially be dominated by cosmic ray pressure rather than ordinary thermal gas pressure. This insight fundamentally reshapes our understanding of the physical states of the multiphase CGM, and may help solve long-standing puzzles such as the survival of the ubiquitous cool gas, and the usually under-predicted O VI.

BIO
Dr. Suoqing Ji is currently a Sherman Fairchild Fellow in theoretical physics at California Institute of Technology. He received his Ph.D. in theoretical physics from University of California Santa Barbara in 2018, M.S. in physics from University of Massachusetts Dartmouth in 2013, and B.S. in applied physics from Anhui Jianzhu University in China in 2011. He is interested in the impact of micro-physical and non-thermal processes, such as magnetohydrodynamics, turbulence, instabilities and cosmic rays, on circumgalactic medium, intracluster medium and Type Ia supernovae. (http://www.tapir.caltech.edu/~suoqing)

Host: Prof. Xuening Bai





Simulation on galaxy formation

One big problem in galaxy formation:
	Galaxy formation is inefficient
	Soccer match is inefficient

The circumgalactic medium

galaxies are embedded in HUGE gaseous halos

Hydra cluster
Mammoth

Cool 10^4 K gas is stricking

Possible origins of cool gas

Form in-situ

suppress buoyant oscillations

OVI <-> warm CGM
O_6

Puzzling:
	OVI -- only in star forming galaxy
	flat profile
	Co-spatial with low ions(cool phase?)
	short cooling time ~ 10Myr

Goal:
How to obtain high (>10^{14.5}) O-VI columns?
	3 attempt:
		Make a larger halo - inconsistent with cutoff at R_vir
		Make stronger feedbacks - overheat low ions
		Make ...
	Another possible O-VI sourve:
		turbulent mixing

Cosmic rays could be important
	CR diffuses out into CGM

CRs make CGM cool
CGM phase is shifted to the cool end

CR pressure gradient is dominant

Galaxy formation simulations over the next decades

Thermal insatbility 

Hybeid MHD-PIC simulation for cosmic rays, first proposed by Bai+ 2015


cosmic from supernova
from star

10% energy from ... to cosmic rays



































