Time:	 Tuesday, December 31, 2019, 10:00am
 Title:	 Model the Nonlinear Universe in the era of Large Surveys and Machine Learning

李寅

cosmological survey data
Discover/ Constrain New Physics

Spectroscopic 6.5m proposed by Tsinghua

survey data

formation of large scale structure

Information loss to nonlinear structure formation

Numerical approach: N-body simulation
	Vlasov-Poisson equation
Analytic approach: Perturbation theories
	fails in nonlinear regime


isaacchanghau.github.io

Deep learning
model structure formation

Numerical simulation -  - as label, to train the network

Sensible design: Polyhedral symmetry, 
 1 --> 48 different simulation

Model accuracy, pointwise comparasion

powerlaw: fluctulation as a function of scale

Questions:
prediction performance? --- new simulation with new initial conditions which is not in the training set

test at different cosmology

Sensible design: input linear theory instead of initial condition

Model efficiency: compared with Gadget

map2map: a general NN emulator from field to fields

Future directions & Synergies

Ly alpha forest absorption prediction

Super resolution simulation

Forward Model the nonlinear structure formation
using machine leanrning

	input: initial condition

Emulator with Quijote Simulation Suite

Galaxy Formation using ML
	reinforce learning
	can we trust what ML tells us, or what new physics detail ML can tell

Astrophysics Applications using ML
	strong lensing finding
	transit signal detecting


Other projects on cosmology
	
What your opinion on the best results could get from DL



Transfer learning, hieracy
Large scale N body simulation --- Small scale hydrodynamic simulation

favoriate: Cosmology: PFS, DESS
existing data 



























 Speaker:	 Dr. Yin Li (Flatiron Institute)
 Location:	
蒙民伟科技南楼S727

ABSTRACT

Current and future cosmological surveys are going to map the large-scale structures at finer resolutions in an ever-increasing volume, enabling us to put unprecedented constraints on fundamental physics, and to potentially answer some of the most exciting questions in astrophysics and cosmology. However, structure formation is a highly nonlinear process, posing challenges to an accurate and efficient modeling crucial to an optimal exploitation of the valuable survey datasets.

The two conventional approaches to structure formation are numerical simulation and perturbation theory, with the former being accurate but computationally costly, and the latter being fast but invalid below the nonlinear scale. Machine learning offers a promising third route, given its numerous recent successes at building nonlinear mappings.

Trained with N-body simulations, our deep learning models can predict structure formation with an accuracy much higher than that of the perturbation theory, and an efficiency much greater than that of the training simulation.

I will discuss other applications and ongoing works towards building a complete forward model of the observable Universe.

BIO
Yin Li is a Flatiron Research Fellow in the Center for Computational Astrophysics and the Center for Computational Mathematics at the Flatiron Institute. Previously, Yin was a joint Postdoctoral Fellow between the Berkeley Center for Cosmological Physics at the University of California-Berkeley and the Kavli Institute for the Physics and Mathematics of the Universe at the University of Tokyo. He obtained his Ph.D. in Physics at the University of Chicago and his B.S. in Physics at Peking University. Yin works on the large-scale structure in cosmology and is recently interested in tackling the cosmological structure formation using machine learning. His recent work has been published on PNAS and selected as one of the "top Phys.org articles of 2019".

Host: Prof. Yi Mao
