Time:	 Wednesday, December 04, 2019, 10:30am
 Title:	 Some new applications of strong lensing systems (informal talk)
 Speaker:	 Prof. Marek Biesiada (Univ. of Silesia)

National Centre for Nuclear Research, Warsaw, Poland


 Location:	
蒙民伟科技南楼S621

ABSTRACT

Following the first observational confirmation of General Relativity in famous expedition led by Eddington, whose centenary was celebrated this year, strong gravitational lensing has emerged as a fruitful theoretical and observational discipline.

By now strong lensing has become a mature research field and brought important results both in extragalactic astronomy (study of galactic structure), dark matter and extrasolar planets searches (microlensing) and cosmology (alternative determination of the Hubble constant). However, the potential in this field is much bigger and not sufficiently explored yet. Moreover, the forthcoming sky surveys like DES and the LSST will provide an unprecedented catalogs of strong lensing systems.

In my talk I will review some recent results on new avenues along which the strong lensing can be developed. First is the cosmological model independent determination of cosmic curvature possible by using strong lensing systems. Second is the possibility to constrain modified gravity theories in the parametrized post-newtonian (PPN) formalism. Third promissing application is connected with recent successful detections of gravitational waves. This opened up a new window on the Universe and in the not so far future we could expect to see some of such signals being lensed. I will also discuss the vision of what the strong lensing of gravitational waves can bring.

Host: Prof. Dandan Xu


Kelly et al. 2016, APJL
supernova 1 yr's time delay

1. Strong Lesing as a new probe of cosmic curvature


Plank
Univ is spacialy flat, inferenced from ...

Formation of the large scale structure induces non-zero curvature at local scales


The distance sum rule from strong lensing systems and quasars - test of cosmic curvature and beyond
2019 MNARS

LSST

Strongly gravitationally lensed type Ia supernovae: Direct test of the FLRW metric, 2019 paper

Simulated LSST Stronly Lensed SNIa

Prediction according the Silent Universe model
K.Bolejko 2017

Direct ... wave
Cao Shuo
Nature paper


Parametrized post-Newtonian (PPN) formalism is a very convenient way to study and compare gravity theories beyond GR

Test of Para... With galaxy-scale strong lensing systems



Science:
A precise extragalactic test of General Relativity
Science 360, 1342-1346, 2018

3. Strong lensing of Gravitational Waves

Einstein Telescope


How does the earth's rotation affect predictions of Gravitational wave strong lensing rate?
paper

grav lens of grav waves, a statistical perspective
paper

Precision cosmology from future ...
paper

What if LIGO's grav wave detections ...
paper

arxiv: 1802.05273
arxiv: 1901.02674

Speed of grav wave...
paper

Tests of GR with GW150914


















































