2019.01.03 Embracing a new decade of galaxy-halo connection, Dr. Song Huang (Princeton Univ.) 

What is Galaxy Halo Connection
	Galaxy-Halo connection is statistical,
	given cosmology model --> Matter distribution --> galaxies
		Wechsler & Tinker 2019
	THe connection goes both ways
1. Measure the dark side of galaxies

2. Understand how does galaxy grow within dark matter halo

3. Using galaxies to trace the farbic of the universe

What should we start
1. Data products
	Deep multiband Images, optical spectra
2. Measurement:
	Galaxy-galaxy lensing

3. Modeling Approches
	Semi Empirical modeling, 

HSC
	steller distribution, dark matter halo(much further away)

measure tiny shape distortion

Hyper Suprime-Cam Subaru

The connection is Sparse - Primary & Secondary Properties
Steller Mass vs Halo Mass, (Wechsler & Tinker 2018) --- Is there any theoretical interpretation about this relation

The Two-Phase Assembly Scenario for Massive Galaxies
	Phase-I: Intense Dissipation, Fast Quenching
	Phase-II: Minor/Major Mergers
	Huang+2013a,b, 2016

Aperture Steller Massers: 10kpc vs 100kpc
10^11 M_sun

Surface Stellar Mass Density vs R^(0.25)
Huang 2020
Similarly massive galaxies have different assembly history
They live in dark matter halo with different mass

Application of A.S.A.P model: massive halo finder
trace massive halo using central galaxy alone

Different Selection - Similar Halo Mass - Subtle Differences

Adding the most massive satellite galaxy
arxiv 1905.09353

Next steps:
	Hydro-Simulations
	Halo Modeling
		Scatter of SHMR (Stellar-Halo Mass Relation)
			-constrain feedback and quenching, or gain insights about halo assembly history, e.g. Tinker+2017
			Photometry of definition of "Stellar mass" alone can introduce scatter and bias into the calibration of SHMR, MassiceBlackII Simulation, HSC Observation
			Impact from Baryonic Effect is Important, Aurel Schneider; X-ray Clusters from XMM-XXL, Pacaud+2016, Chiappetti+2018, eFFDS survey is finished
			Assembly Bias, Holo with the same mass but diff other properities cluster differently
			Splash-back radius, 
				A more physical boundary of dark matter halos
				Help us measure halo accretion rate and much more
		Lensing systematics
			We are looking into the impact of photometric redshift of source galaxies
			Lensing without borders
			...
                ...
	Observations of Galaxies

Short Term Plans 5Yrs
1. Galaxies (HSC, DECaLS, & Follow-ups): Improve our understanding about steller steller
2.
3.
4.

Ten Year Plans
...

Universe Machine
































